Hello friends!!!

This article is related to the Network Programming topic of our great syllb.. ;-)
fortunately Chandru sir is teaching us this subject.. so atleast we can try some thing new!!
don't know about you people I am really like the way he motivates us to do things... 
just one simple request to him... "sir!! please don't use 'bullshit' word too much... " ;-)

Now back to topic... Sir in class told us about "daytime server/client" program!! which is using 
"unp.h" file.. which is a wrapper designed by the authors of Unix Network Programming Book!!
they have included the source code of the "unp.h" in the book.. but after going through it.. I found..
that it also uses some more headers files.. that is not given in the book!! So I searched net and
have found this "unpv13e.tar.gz" it's a zipped file and it contains all the source and headers 
related to the book.. as the book name suggest.. it has been written for Unix based system.. i.e. 
GNU/Linux, BSD, Solaris etc. So you might not be able to use these codes in windowzzzzzzzzzz!!!

If you want to try out the programs sir has taught us... you can follow the steps below!! after that
it's your world.. think and write something great!! and share with us too!!

Step 1 : Download the "unpv13e.tar.gz" file from the "files" section of this community.. you can find 
it on the homepage of this community itself!

Step 2 : On your linux system .. just right click on it.. and "extract" it!!!

Step 3 : Open terminal.

Step 4 : Go to the folder containing the extracted files .. by default the extracted folder name is
'unpv13e'.

Step 5 : After getting inside the 'unpv13e' folder issue the following commands one by one...
	
	a) ./configure

	b) cd lib
    	   make

    	c) cd ../libfree
    	   make

The setting up procedure is now complete!!

This particular source code also contains the "daytime server/client" example of the book inside the
'intro' folder.....
To try out.. if everything is working fine!!!

Step 6: go to 'intro' folder using command on terminal:

	cd intro

Step 7: write command:to compile the server 

	make daytimetcpsrv

Step 8: Write command : to compile the client 

	make daytimetcpcli

Don't get confused.. "make" is something new.. but is doing.. what generally compilers, linkers, loaders 
are intended to do!! So cheers.. just keep on doing... atleast first lay your hands on first example!!
later on.. we will learn how to compile our own source code!!

Step 9 : now we need to start the server : as it opens a port which is 13 so we will require adminstrative
rights in Linux... that we cand do by issuing following command on the terminal:

	sudo ./daytimetcpsrv

This will start the server... 

Step 10 : now while the server is running in one terminal.. open another terminal.. and issue the following
command to see if the server started in the last command is working as intended or not....

	./daytimetcpcli 127.0.0.1

This will show output something like this :

	Mon Aug 24 16:08:30 2009

if your output is like this.. we have succefully configured and tried one of the example of the UNP book...
cheers....

To stop the server just use the key comination "ctrl + c" and the server will
terminate/stop!!

I don't know.. how many of you will be going through this article.. but.. anyone!! if liked it.. please do tell
me... and any problem.. feel free to mail me.. Thankyou!!

---
Nitin Kumar
MCA 5th Sem
